---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Signals Intelligence
---

# Bots Signals Intelligence

For every available JA4 fingerprint, Bot Management customers can view how Cloudflare sees it on the internet and what behavior we view with the fingerprint. This data can help you understand why a request is scored in a particular fashion or allow you to use the aggregate data in your own ML models, run in either [Cloudflare Workers](/workers/) or at the origin location. 

Specifically, for each JA4 fingerprint, you will be able to access the following information: 

- The percentage of traffic Cloudflare sees is associated with browsers. 
- The percentage of traffic Cloudflare sees is associated with known bots.
- The number of networks Cloudflare sees actively using this fingerprint. 
- The number of Cloudflare sites that see traffic from this fingerprint. 
- The frequency that fingerprint requests caches content and generates errors.

This data gives you access to insights only available via the Cloudflare network and generated by our unique edge network that sits behind 20% of all internet traffic. Additionally, you can use this data to write unique custom rules or rate-limits, or even feed this data into your own [Workers AI](/workers-ai/) powered custom ML models via the Signals Intelligence fields below.

## Signals Intelligence fields

Signals Intelligence fields show observations about a particular JA4 that Cloudflare has seen globally over the last hour.

| <div style="width:140px">Field name</div> | Description |
| --- | --- | 
| `browser_pct` | Percentage of global traffic from user-agents identifying as browsers in the last hour using this fingerprint. |
| `heuristics_pct` | Percentage of global traffic identified by our heuristics engine as bad bots. |
| `cache_hit_pct` | Percentage of global traffic from in the last hour made to cached objects using this fingerprint. |
| `unique_zones` | Percentage of unique zones Cloudflare sees this fingerprint on in the past hour. |
| `4xx_pct` | Percentage of global traffic from in the last hour using this fingerprint that resulted in an HTTP 4xx response. |