---
title: Pre-clearance support
pcx_content_type: reference
weight: 14
layout: single
---

# Pre-clearance support for single-page applications

You can integrate Cloudflare challenges on single-page applications (SPAs) by allowing Turnstile to issue a pre-clearance cookie. The pre-clearance level is set upon widget creation or widget modification using the Turnstile API's `clearance_level`. Possible values for the configuration are `no_clearance`, `jschallenge`, `managed`,  or `interactive`. All widgets are set to `no_clearance` by default.

For Enterprise customers eligible to disable domain checks, Cloudflare recommends issuing pre-clearance cookies on widgets where at least one domain is specified.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
Pre-clearance cookies only support zones that are orange-clouded.
{{</Aside>}}

## Pre-clearance level options

- **Interactive**: Interactive pre-clearance allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by Interactive, Managed Challenge, or JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

- **Managed**: Managed allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by Managed Challenge or JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

- **Non-interactive**: Non-interactive allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

### Duration

Clearance cookies generated by the Turnstile widget will be valid for the time specified by the zone-level Challenge Passage value. To configure the Challenge Passage setting, refer to the [WAF documentation](/waf/tools/challenge-passage/).

## Enable pre-clearance on a new site 

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select your account.
2. Go to **Turnstile** > **Add Site**
3. Under **Would you like to opt for pre-clearance for this site?** select **Yes**.
4. Choose the pre-clearance level from the select box.
5. Select **Create**. 

## Enable pre-clearance on an existing site

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select your account.
2. Go to **Turnstile**.
3. Go to the existing widget or site and select **Settings**.
4. Under **Would you like to opt for pre-clearance for this site?** select **Yes**.
5. Choose the pre-clearance level from the select box. 
6. Select **Update**.