---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Resolver policies
weight: 6
meta:
  title: Resolver policies
---

{{<heading-pill style="beta">}}Resolver policies{{</heading-pill>}}

{{<Aside type="note">}}
Only available on Enterprise plans.
{{</Aside>}}

By default, Gateway sends DNS requests to [1.1.1.1](/1.1.1.1/), Cloudflare's public DNS resolver, for resolution. Enterprise users can instead create Gateway policies to route DNS queries to custom resolvers.

## Use cases

You may use resolver policies if you require access to non-publicly routed domains, such as private network services or internal resources. You may also use resolver policies if you need to access a protected DNS service or want to simplify DNS management for multiple locations.

If your resolver is only reachable by a client device and not by Gateway via a Cloudflare tunnel, Magic WAN tunnel, or other public Internet connections, you should configure [Local Domain Fallback](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/warp/configure-warp/route-traffic/local-domains/) for your device. If both Local Domain Fallback and resolver policies are configured for the same device, Cloudflare will apply your client-side Local Domain Fallback rules first.

## Resolver connections

Resolver policies support TCP and UDP connections. Custom resolvers can point to the Internet via IPv4 or IPv6, or to a private network service, such as a [Magic tunnel](/magic-transit/how-to/configure-tunnels/). Policies default to port `53`. You can change which port your resolver uses by customizing it in your policy.

You can protect your authoritative nameservers from DDoS attacks by enabling [DNS Firewall](/dns/dns-firewall/).

### Cloudflare Tunnel

To enable connections to a private resolver connected to Cloudflare via [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/), use `cloudflared` version 2023.10 or newer. To ensure `cloudflared` can route UDP traffic to your resolver, connect your tunnel via [QUIC](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/configure-tunnels/tunnel-run-parameters/#protocol).

For more information on connecting a private DNS resolver to Cloudflare with Cloudflare Tunnel, refer to [Private DNS](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/private-net/cloudflared/private-dns/).

### Magic WAN

To enable connections to a private resolver connected to Cloudflare via [Magic WAN](/magic-wan/), contact your account team.

### Available DNS endpoints

Resolver policies can route queries for resolution from the following DNS endpoints:

- IPv4
- IPv6
- [DNS over HTTPS (DoH)](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/agentless/dns/dns-over-https/)
- [DNS over TLS (DoT)](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/agentless/dns/dns-over-tls/)
- DNS queries generated by Cloudflare [Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/) and [Clientless Web Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/setup/clientless-browser-isolation/)
- DNS queries generated by [proxy endpoints](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/agentless/pac-files/)

Gateway will filter, resolve, and log your queries regardless of endpoint.

## Create a resolver policy

{{<render file="gateway/_create-resolver-policy.md">}}

For more information on creating a DNS policy, refer to [DNS policies](/cloudflare-one/policies/gateway/dns-policies/).

## Selectors

### Content Categories

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_content-categories.md">}}

### DNS Resolver IP

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_dns-resolver-ip.md">}}

### DoH Subdomain

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_doh-subdomain.md">}}

### Domain

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_domain.md">}}

### Host

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_host.md">}}

### Location

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_location.md">}}

### Query Record Type

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_query-record-type.md">}}

### Security Categories

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_security-categories.md">}}

### Source Continent

Use this selector to filter based on the continent where the query arrived to Gateway from.
{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_source-continent.md" withParameters="dns.src">}}

### Source Country

Use this selector to filter based on the country where the query arrived to Gateway from.
{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_source-country.md" withParameters="dns.src">}}

### Source IP

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_source-ip-dns.md">}}

### Users

{{<render file="gateway/selectors/_users.md">}}

## Comparison operators

{{<render file="gateway/_comparison-operators.md">}}

## Value

{{<render file="gateway/_value.md">}}

## Logical operators

{{<render file="gateway/_logical-operators.md" withParameters="**Identity**">}}
