---
order: 2
---

# IPFS Gateway

Cloudflare's read-only Distributed Web Gateway lets you access content stored on
the InterPlanetary File System \(IPFS\) quickly and easily, without downloading
any special software or giving up any storage space on your computer.

Cloudflare's gateway is hosted at https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/. You can find the
basics on IPFS and how to serve your website through our gateway there. These
docs are going to get further into the weeds.


## Refresher on IPFS

### You’re a Client. And a Server.

Every single computer that’s running IPFS acts as both a client and a server. In
other words, each computer running the IPFS software can serve content to any
other computer in the network, as well as request content from anyone in the
network. So if you run IPFS on your computer and upload a picture to the IPFS
network, that image can be viewed and downloaded by anyone else in the world who
is also running IPFS.

### Content Identifiers

Every file added to IPFS is given a unique address derived from a hash of the
file's content. This address is called a Content Identifier (CID) and it
combines the hash of the file and a unique identifier for the hash algorithm
used into a single string.

IPFS currently uses [SHA-256](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2) by default,
which produces a 256 bit (32 byte) output, and that output is encoded with
[Base58](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base58). Base58 is a binary-to-text
encoding scheme originally developed for Bitcoin and has the advantage that
letters that might be mistaken for each other in certain fonts \(like zero and
the capital letter O\) aren't included.

A CID will typically look something like this:

```
QmXoypizjW3WknFiJnKLwHCnL72vedxjQkDDP1mXWo6uco
```

However, the same hash could be encoded with
[Base32](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base32) and there are a slew of other
supported hash algorithms including [SHA-3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-3)
and [BLAKE2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLAKE_(hash_function)).

### Uploading to IPFS

IPFS is fundamentally a [Distributed Hash Table
\(DHT\)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_hash_table) which maps from
CIDs to people who have the content addressed by that CID. The hash
table is distributed because no single node in the network holds the whole
thing. Instead, each node stores a subset of the hash table, as well as
information about which nodes are storing other relevant sections.

When someone talks about 'uploading' content to IPFS, what they really mean
(usually) is that they're announcing to the network that they have some content
by adding an entry to the DHT that maps from CID to their IP address. Somebody
else who wants to download their data would lookup the CID in the DHT, find the
person's IP address, and download the data directly from them.

The speed and reliability advantages of IPFS come from the fact that many people
can upload the same data, and then downloads will be spread between all of them.
If any one of them goes offline or decides to stop hosting the data, the others
can pick up the slack.


### Directories

Note that it's not just individual files that can be uploaded. For example,
let's take a folder called `example`, which has exactly one file,
`example_text.txt`, containing the string `I'm trying out IPFS`.

If that folder were uploaded with the command `ipfs add -r ./example`, both the
folder and the file it contains would have their own CID. In this case, the
folder would have the CID `QmdbaSQbGU6Wo9i5LyWWVLuU8g6WrYpWh2K4Li4QuuE8Fr` while
the file would have the CID `QmXnnyufdzAWL5CqZ2RnSNgPbvCc1ALT73s6epPrRnZ1Xy`.

You could then access the file in two ways.

1. Requesting the file directly:<br />
   https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/QmXnnyufdzAWL5CqZ2RnSNgPbvCc1ALT73s6epPrRnZ1Xy
2. Requesting the file by name, from the directory:<br />
   https://cloudflare-ipfs.com/ipfs/QmdbaSQbGU6Wo9i5LyWWVLuU8g6WrYpWh2K4Li4QuuE8Fr/example_text.txt

While the CID of a file will only change if the file itself changes, the CID of
a directory changes any time **any** of the files in it change, or if any files
are added/removed.

Directories make it possible to address an entire static website with a single
CID and access different pages of the website by requesting different files in
the directory.

### Using DNS to Get Rid of CIDs

Just like DNS saves people browsing the Internet from having to remember the IP
address of every website they want to visit, DNS can also save us from having to
remember the CIDs of websites on IPFS. The trick is to put the entire website
inside a directory, compute the CID of the directory, and put that CID into a
special DNS record associated with a domain called a DNSLink.

This way, when a gateway gets a request for https://example.com/index.html, the
gateway can lookup the CID of the directory from example.com's DNS and then
serve the file `index.html` from that directory. When a new version is ready to
be published, the site owner updates their DNSLink DNS record to contain the new
CID and the gateway will start serving the new version automatically.
