---
title: Pre-Clearance support
pcx_content_type: reference
weight: 3
---

# Pre-Clearance support for single-page applications

You can integrate Cloudflare challenges on single-page applications (SPAs) by allowing Turnstile to issue a Pre-Clearance cookie. The Pre-Clearance level is set upon widget creation or widget modification using the Turnstile API's `clearance_level`. Possible values for the configuration are `no_clearance`, `jschallenge`, `managed`,  or `interactive`. All widgets are set to `no_clearance` by default.

For Enterprise customers eligible to toggle off domain checks, Cloudflare recommends issuing Pre-Clearance cookies on widgets where at least one domain is specified.

{{<Aside type="note">}}
Pre-Clearance cookies only support zones that are orange-clouded.
{{</Aside>}}

Refer to the [blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/integrating-turnstile-with-the-cloudflare-waf-to-challenge-fetch-requests) for an example of Pre-Clearance implementation.

## Pre-Clearance level options

- **Interactive**: Interactive Pre-Clearance allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by Interactive, Managed Challenge, or JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

- **Managed**: Managed allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by Managed Challenge or JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

- **Non-interactive**: Non-interactive allows a user with a clearance cookie to not be challenged by JavaScript Challenge Firewall Rules

### Duration

Clearance cookies generated by the Turnstile widget will be valid for the time specified by the zone-level Challenge Passage value. To configure the Challenge Passage setting, refer to the [WAF documentation](/waf/tools/challenge-passage/).

## Enable Pre-Clearance on a new site 

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select your account.
2. Go to **Turnstile** > **Add Site**.
3. Under **Would you like to opt for Pre-Clearance for this site?** select **Yes**.
4. Choose the Pre-Clearance level from the select box.
5. Select **Create**. 

## Enable Pre-Clearance on an existing site

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select your account.
2. Go to **Turnstile**.
3. Go to the existing widget or site and select **Settings**.
4. Under **Would you like to opt for Pre-Clearance for this site?** select **Yes**.
5. Choose the Pre-Clearance level from the select box. 
6. Select **Update**.

## Verified bots

If a [verified bot](/bots/concepts/bot/#verified-bots) encounters a page where a Turnstile widget is implemented, the challenge will fail and the verified bot will see a `403` error from the Turnstile endpoint. 

However, if a verified bot is excluded from the rule which pre-clearance will grant clearance for, it will pass. Users can create a [WAF custom rule](/waf/custom-rules/) to exclude verified bots.