---
order: 6
---

# Access with JSON web tokens

Cloudflare Access uses JSON Web Tokens (JWTs), and their contents, to confirm a user’s identity before allowing or denying access to sensitive resources. Cloudflare securely creates these tokens through the OAUTH or SAML integration between Cloudflare Access and the configured identity provider.

When users authenticate, Cloudflare signs two distinct JWTs.

<TableWrap>

| Type | Cookie location | Purpose |
| -- | -- | -- |
| **Organization Token** | The authentication domain; for example, `https://company.cloudflareacess.com` | The Organization Token contains the user identity and relevant user group membership. The token removes the need for users to redundantly login to their identity provider when connecting to multiple applications. |
| **App Token** | The application's domain; for example, `https://jira.company.com` | The Application Token contains the user identity and, optionally, SAML attributes for the user that can be consumed by the application. The Application Token is unique to each application accessed. |

</TableWrap>

The content in the JWT is available for teams to validate independently, as well.

## JWT contents

JWTs contain three Base64-URL, separated by dots:
* Header
* Payload
* Signature

A typical JWT looks like this:

```
eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjkzMzhhYmUxYmFmMmZlNDkyZjY0.eyJhdWQiOlsiOTdlMmFhZ TEyMDEyMWY5MDJkZjhiYzk5ZmMzNDU5MTNh.zLYsHmLEginAQUXdygQo08gLTExWNXsN4jBc6PKdB
```

JWTs generated by Access are available in a request header as `Cf-Access-Jwt-Assertion` and as cookies as `CF_Authorization`. When not using Argo Tunnel, the tokens must be validated by the application to ensure the authenticity of the token and the security of the origin. Validation of the header alone is not sufficient. The JWT and signature must be confirmed to avoid identity spoofing.
Cloudflare uses the RSA Signature with `SHA-256` (`RS256`) to sign the JWT using a public and private key pair. `RS256` follows an asymmetric algorithm; a private key signs the JWTs and a separate public key verifies the signature. When you configure Access, the public certificates are available under: `https://<Your Authentication Domain>/cdn-cgi/access/certs`.

For example, if the application URL is example.com, then the certificate URL is: `https://example.<strong>cloudflareaccess</strong>.com/cdn-cgi/access/certs`.

### Header

```json
{
    "alg": "RS256",
    "kid": "9338abe1baf2fe492f646a736f25afbf7b025e35c627be4f60c414d4c73069b8",
    "typ": "JWT"
}
```
The header contains the encoding algorithm. kid identifies the key used to sign tokens. Typ designates the token format.

### Payload

```json
{
    "aud": ["97e2aae120121f902df8bc99fc345913ab186d174f3079ea729236766b2e7c4a"],
    "email": "admin@example.com",
    "exp": 1519418214,
    "iat": 1519331815,
    "iss": "https://drawbridge.cloudflareaccess.com",
    "nonce": "1d8083f708a47982296f2d9896d70f207a27938f026540c392b903e5fdf4d6e9",
    "sub": "ca639bb9-26ab-42e5-b9bf-3aea27b331fd"
}
```

The payload contains the actual claim and user information to pass to the application.
* `aud` identifies the application to which the JWT is issued. Our example uses test.example.com.
* `email` contains the email address of the authenticated user.
* `sub` contains the identifier of the authenticated user.
* `iss` the issuer is the application’s Cloudflare Access Domain URL.
* `iat` and exp are the issuance and expiration timestamps.
* `nonce` is the session identifier.
* `identity_nonce` is available in the Application Token and can be used to query all group membership for a given user.
* `custom` contains SAML attributes in the Application Token specified by an administrator in the identity provider configuration.

### Signature

To generate the signature, the encoded header, encoded payload, and the algorithm specified in the header are signed using the Cloudflare Access private key. Users validate the token using the public key.

Cloudflare includes the JWT with all authenticated requests in two places:
* The response header `Cf-Access-Jwt-Assertion`
* The cookie `CF_Authorization`

Visit [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) for more information on JWTs.

### User Identity

After a visitor authenticates to Cloudflare Access, all subsequent requests to the application server contain a `Cf-Access-Authenticated-User-Email` header with the authenticated user. Our example uses `user@example.com`.

This allows you to identify the user currently logged in. It is critical to ensure that only Cloudflare can send requests to the origin when relying on this header. Even so, validating the header alone is not sufficient. JWTs and signatures must be confirmed to avoid identity spoofing.

Based on security requirements, you can allow users to have longer or shorter sessions than the default. The longer the user session, the less frequently they need to log in, but long sessions remain valid if the user doesn’t log out.

You can set the Session Duration on the Settings page of the Edit Access Policy dialog box in the Access app on your Cloudflare dashboard.

Click **Revoke existing tokens** to revoke JWTs associated with the selected policy.

## Groups within a JWT

The JWT created by Cloudflare Access contains the user identity and also a mechanism for your application to identify the user's SSO group membership. For example, your application can validate that a given user is a member of an Okta or AzureAD group like `Finance-Team` or `Eng`.

Requests sent to the origin contain the JWT in a header, `Cf-Access-Jwt-Assertion`, as well as a cookie in the user's browser titled `CF_Authorization`. If your application retrieves that cookie, it can then make a request to `https://<authdomain>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/get-identity`, where the authdomain is your account's authentication domain. The request should be structured as follows:

```
curl -H 'cookie: CF_Authorization=<users token>' https://<authdomain>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/get-identity
```

The response will be structured as JSON:

```json
{
  "groups": [
    {
      "id": "02fk6b3p3majl10",
      "email": "finance@cloudflaredemo.com",
      "name": "FinanceTeam"
    },
    {
      "id": "04k668n318e7vu5",
      "email": "eng@cloudflaredemo.com",
      "name": "Eng"
    }
  ]
}
```

Alternatively, organizations using SAML providers can specify attributes to be included directly inside of the Application Token sent to the origin.
To do so, add the desired attributes in the SAML attributes section of the identity provider configuration. Cloudflare Access will attempt to add as many attributes as possible before capping the list to avoid size issues. Access attempts to add attributes in the order they are listed.